The effects of limited perception:
eg: in top game you can see when you're above block, estimate time until you land and time in air above block more easily because you can see the vertical space which maps to the time until safe. in bottom game you cant. the colour stops at pink and just stays there, you don't see how much higher you are than the block, only that you are higher. You know how much longer you have only because of seeing it before and learning.

What if the gameplay gets harder or more complex? How much better does a person get at the game when you give them more perceptual hints? will be cool to experiment with that.

An idea for even more enhanced perception, could make for a cool game mechanic:
Show trajectory of jump before they click.
Show trajectory of jump as they click and as things change.
Show trajectory of jump/where player is along that trajectory as time passes after jump.
With a more complex jump, like in Mario, where holding the button longer means a higher jump, show the trajectory change dynamically while you hold the button while the character moves through the air. Letting go of the button 'locks' the trajectory until the player lands. Maybe with visual hints like this it could make the game a lot easier. Would be cool to experiment with a game like super meat boy, giving a super hard level, one with extra visual trajectory hints, and one without, and see how much better they play due to it.
What about other senses than visual :P?
What if you reduce the game to a super simple one button taiko like thing? Is it a lot easier than a super hard runner with crazy obstacles and jumps and enemies?
Would be cool to toggle the extra perceprivity on or off in different games - eg: in top one you can toggle the extra perciptivity off by makeing the block stop and chill just above the obstacle for a while, like how the bottom stops at pink, rather than animating all the way up and down.

Lol it would be cool to measure all of these things for a player and adjust/direct the games difficulty, playing with these factors. maybe add some randomness and hey now you've got a procedural roguelike endless runner l0l. and metaprogress/ingame payments for extra visuals to make it easier LOOL. and instead of just a high score at the end you can kinda show a player profile with lots more detail and interesting things. maybe have some points to make about how to teach the player to be better, maybe direct the game in ways that train them to be better.
have challenges based on player profile/personality. like, you have to inhabit a different personality/playstyle in order to succeed.

get person to choose their personality, and guide game based on that, create a more personal vibe. share/compare personalties...ehhh meh. lool you have like a corpsy moneybags personality for the people that use in game purchases to succeed. gotta pay to unlock it haha!
